Add an example of measuring prerendering activations (#36526)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/document/prerenderingchange_event/index.md

## Examples

### Preventing code from running during prerendering

> The following code sets up an event listener to run a function once prerendering has finished, on a prerendered page (the prerendering is detected via {{domxref("Document.prerendering")}}), or runs it immediately on a non-prerendered page:

Reviewer: While we're here, let's make it clear why we're bothering. Also, I think this was wrong because it says "once prerendering has finished", and actually the case is "once the view is activated".

```suggestion
The example shows how to defer code, that would otherwise run during prerendering, until after page activation.
This is useful for deferring analytics code, which is only relevant when and if the page is actually viewed.

The code checks if prerendering is running using {{domxref("Document.prerendering")}}, and if so adds an event listener to run an analytics initialization function once the page is activated.
On a page that is not prerendering the analytics code is run immediately.
```

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer: Suggest put here - we want to avoid people who _just_ read this example from thinking they can use this approach.

```suggestion
Note that this kind of code should not be used for measuring how often a prerender is activated, because the code may run after a prerendered page has already activated.

> [!NOTE]
```

> See the [Speculation Rules API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Speculation_Rules_API) landing page and particularly the [Unsafe speculative loading conditions](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Speculation_Rules_API#unsafe_speculative_loading_conditions) section for more information on the kinds of activities you might wish to delay until after prerendering has finished.

> ### Tracking prerendering activations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Measuring prerendering activations
```

Tracking can have negative connotations and is often associated with cross-site tracking.

> Code following the above pattern will not suffice for measuring how often a prerender is activated, because it's possible for the code to run after prerendering activation. Instead, use the following pattern:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The previous code will not suffice for measuring how often a prerender is activated, because it's possible for that code to run after prerendering activation. Instead, use the following pattern:
```

```js
if (document.prerendering) {
  document.addEventListener(
    "prerenderingchange",
    () => {
      console.log("Prerender activated after this script ran");
    },
    { once: true },
  );
} else if (performance.getEntriesByType("navigation")[0]?.activationStart > 0) {

>   console.log("Prerender activated before this script ran");

Reviewer 3: Optional Nit: Should this condition be checked first?

Reviewer 2: It can’t be checked first if the idea is to separate the two cases since activationStart with be non-zero for both.

However, I’m wondering if it’s necessary to separate these two cases or simpler to just advise to check `activationStart`?

Author: Barry, I don't think that's right? `activationStart` will be zero during prerendering, since activation hasn't happened yet.

Reviewer 2: Ah yes. I was presuming that any measurement would only happen after activation. But yes you may be interested in measuring that earlier than that. Especially if interested in measuring pages that never get activated.

So yes, your code is a more complete measure of this.
